Luis, we talk a lot about capital
expansion, but I really believe
that our students have many doubts,
and in fact, in many cases,
they consult us, and I will
go asking.
There is one of them, that I know
that a lot of people cause curiosity,
and it is how the startups fund
the growth, in some cases making
rounds in capital enlargements, in
which all the money is put by investors,
however, the founders continue
to have a majority part of the
company, when usually this did
not work like this, because
if you make an extension of capital
and all the money put others,
because it seems that the traditional
mechanism was that they
would stay with 100%
or almost the entire company.
How does this exactly work?
Well, here you are right that is a
lot of curiosity and that generates
doubts, and the answer is very
simple, the mechanism is very simple,
this time it is what is called
the assumption premium or emission
premium, coming from SSA or SL.
Here I speak of course of Spanish
regulations, but in reality
the mechanism from a mathematical
point of view is exactly
the same all over the world,
the concept of dilution.
I'll explain a little from a Spanish
point of view how it works,
but I insist, the principle
of how it works from a mathematical
point of view is exactly
the same.
You imagine, for example, I'm going
to put a very specific case, you
imagine that we have a company in
which we have a company that has an
initial social capital, for example,
of 10,000 euros and that wants
to raise 100,000 euros.
The founders, in fact, have put
10,000 euros in capital at the
time of the Constitution.
Exactly, without any priority and without anything.
So, we want to capture 100,000 euros
of investment and with a valuation
of the company of one million
euros.
Post money means after the investment.
If it is post money one million euros
and we have contributed 100,000, then
pre money would be 900,000.
That is, the founders have put
10,000 euros, as they need
to finance their growth,
they turn to investors that
investors put 100,000.
and exact.
by 100,000.
Well, and what you say is that
at this point, when this capital
expansion is made, the company is
valued at one million euros.
Well, that is, you can value anything,
but in your example the valuation
is one million euros.
Post money is a million euros.
Post money means, I'll explain,
that that million euros is what
the company is worth after
investors have put those
100,000 to clarify it.
actually is.
So, if we didn't make this
calculation of the first
issue, what would happen?
That the company would have 110,000
euros and 90%, 90% and peak percent
of the company would be the investors,
which doesn't make sense.
In this context we
are talking about.
In the end, how does this work?
But in the end, what we do is that
we divide that contribution, those 100,
000 euros, into an extension of social
capital, a 10%, is worth.
That is, those 10,000 we have
to increase a 10% to 11,000, 111
approximately.
That is, social capital.
Yes, the 10,000 euros are converted
to 11.100, 11.100 euros.
We'll do it in big numbers.
The share capital is increased from 10,000 to 11,000.
11,000 long but 11,000.
And all the other money, all those
98,000 and peak euros, would go in the
concept of a premium of issue or
premium of assumption, okay?
That assumption premium is a
accounting concept that is part of
your balance sheet and that is
in your own funds, right?
As if it was a reserve, really.
It is not capital, but it is something
very similar, so that we understand,
it is something very similar to
capital.
Yes, it's a fund of own funds, it's
part of your own funds.
That is a premium that is called.
Why is it called premium?
I like the English name because
it is very well understood.
It is the extra you pay in your company
for the difference between the social
capital you have registered
in your books and the actual
value.
The real value of this is estimated
at one million euros.
Exactly, then it's a premium, it's
like an extra premium that
you're paying for later joining
the company.
That is.
That is the way to function.
And the consequence of this is that
the founders who put 10,000 euros
and had at the time 100%,
at the time zero had 100% of
the company, then they
have achieved that it is valued
in a million euros and that investors
are also in agreement with
that valuation, and
thanks to it after making
the round, the founders
still have him, in this case
90% of the company.
and exact.
All the money was actually invested
by the investors.
Exactly, in this case, yes, well,
the 10,000 euros initiated have
been put in one way or another,
but effectively, but the great subsequent
contribution has been divided
in that way.
This is a mathematically
meaningful process.
It is completely homogeneous in
all countries, it works exactly
the same.
What changes is the way it
is implemented.
I don't know if this is a topic
you want to comment on.
It changes the way it is implemented.
Legal or how?
Yes, legally, that is, we have
said how the mathematical model
of dilution works.
It is that I think it is very important
to understand the dilution model because, how
can you finance with a full capital
without diluting yourself.
And here, of course, here is the interest
of the founders in making the
rating as high as possible so that
your license is...
Exactly so.
There is one tip that we always give
in the face of this and it seems,
again from a mathematical point
of view, that it is very important
that your rating be as high as possible.
Look, because that can guarantee
you get little dilution in an
initial round, but the higher
your valuation in the initial
phases, the higher it has to be
in the rounds so that it does not
harm the interests of the investors
who enter at the beginning.
So I have a advice for
everyone, please be consistent,
have a roadmap and be
able to consolidate or
defend your value always
in many rounds.
And that's not because it's too high,
it's something that's going
to be necessarily good for you.
Because defending that value
over time forces you to do many
things that are not always easy.
That advice you give us coincides
perfectly, that is, coincides with
one that Izanami gave us that was
exactly the same.
That is, investors are entering
your company to get a plus-
value, to multiply by
10 for example that investment
they have made.
If you in the first rounds, for
example, the rating is too
high and then you are not able
to grow, because you are placing
yourself in a complicated
situation for you, for
investors, etc.
Because they won't accompany you,
you won't be able to continue funding
growth, etc.
It's especially difficult for
you to follow the next round because
you're going to be harming the interest
of your first investors who
may no longer accompany you.
There is one term that I would like
our students to know and it is the
cap table.
The cap table is, after having done
the capital operation with the first
issue, the cap table is the final
photo, of which is the distribution
between all.
Exactly, it's a very simple
term, it's just like you say,
it's like an excel, it doesn't talk
to you in what you have who each of
the partners is, like the registration
book of partners.
Who each of the partners is, what
percentage it has, what shares or
social participations it corresponds to.
This is a concept that is
used a lot.
It is true that we use it as a currency,
it is something that has been centralized
as a way of referring, but it
is a frame of partners, it is
nothing more complicated than
that.
Perfect, but it is good that the concepts
are fixed because they are concepts
that do not come out to
us on a daily basis, but that
in other environments are not
so usual.
And finally, I would like you
to explain how the operative is,
how the sequential steps in a
capital issue are.
Well, I will do it from a
perspective a little Spanish law
by derivation or professional
deviation, but good is a mechanism
that is virtually identical
in almost all countries because
at the end there is the double
instance of document or
registration and so on.
The first thing we have to be clear
is that the social capital is
part of the statutes of a company,
that is, there is a section
that usually is between 2 and 5
of the statutes in which it says,
this company has a social
capital of x euros divided into
so many shares and social
participations, as it forms
part of that structure.
To change it, we have to go to a public
document without registering within
the register.
So what do we do?
There is a general board agreement,
we have all the partners together
and we have decided to make that
capital increase.
Depending on what we have agreed and according
to what the statutes say, there will
be one mechanism or another or it
will require more or less majorities.
In principle, a simple majority
should be enough to make
a capital increase.
So that means that we gather,
increase capital, decide,
we will increase our first
issue, while the first issue
is not among the statutes.
So, general board, general board,
there is no need to get together, there
are many ways to do so, let's say,
by general, we will not go into
the detail, but in general it is a
record, with a certificate that
is public and that certificate then
goes to the property registration,
so that when someone accesses
within six months to the register
you can see that there has been
an act of constitution and then
successive acts of capital increase,
each in the amount and you can
reconstruct the history and capital
of your company well through annual
accounts in which a balance sheet
will appear with the
capital or the agreements
that are in the situation
of registration.
In the record, perfectly.
I will finish this class
by saying that effectively as you
are well saying, all this is more
complex than it seems and also
between doing well and doing
bad it may be that we know cases
between doing well and doing bad,
because the founders can end
up in a situation of unprotected,
they can lose money, etc., then
the recommendation here that
I will do it I do not, for you
is that we say that they seek
advice like yours in Metrixon
so that they accompany them
in that process.
That's a good advice, I agree
with you.
And I say it really because I know
cases where, by trying to do
so in a way, I don't know, in house,
whatever, the founders have eventually
seen themselves years later
in positions that have created
a huge company but are unprotected,
for example, against funds
that have entered or that have
diluted too much because
I didn't understand the
mechanism, etc.
It is a process that is nothing
intuitive, there is no section of
this that is something that you can
deduce logically, but you have to
have the preparation and especially
the experience a little to understand
the effects that generates doing
it in one way or do it in another,
because that is why I am in agreement
with you that you have to go people
who have, unless they understand
the procedure well, that you can
accompany, that you can advise
you in advance, tend to execute
it because once it is already
done, it is a public writing,
it is a public document that is
written in a record, it is
nothing that you can change
suddenly one day for another.
Oh, I was wrong.
No, it does not work that way.
And I will go beyond because it is that,
and I say it because I believe in
it, and it is that in this case
you have to turn to professionals,
you do not have your cousin the lawyer,
that is, it has to be people who
have participated in operations of
this type, but there are very
few offices that really have
experience in this type of
concrete operations.
is correct.
Yes, yes, in fact, we have found
ourselves in occasions that we had
to fix acts that were wrong done,
the calculation was wrong done
because there was a dictator,
notaries do not dedicate themselves
to doing that kind of things.
They can advise you but in
simple operations, that they do day
by day, but then when you already start
with things a little more complex,
with valuations and with that kind
of things, they themselves are
the first to feel uncomfortable or
that they do not have the
preparation, the necessary
experience to do so, with which
yes, I think it is worth going
to a lawyer, in Spain we are
also cheap, a specialized lawyer.
Yes, even specialized
lawyers like us, we are not like
the United States, which are really
some forgotten concerns,
it's worth coming and asking
the right people and that's
not so difficult to find.
This is a chassarrillo, but well,
it is that I want to say it and it is
that usually people, with lawyers what
happens and you happen to you is
that when you have someone in your
environment who is a lawyer,
it seems that the lawyer does not
know what he knows, is
specialized in something, but sure
they ask you for thousands of things.
I wonder about a separation or
an inheritance.
If you need to know everything.
It is the same as the mouthpieces,
but of these matters
yes.
Of course, that's why the advice is
that for this type of things you turn
to a desk that is specialized
in the subject.